docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

Troubleshooting
===============

Deleting a VFS for Git repo
---------------------------

1. Un-mount the repo.

    Since a VFS for Git clone has a running `GVFS.Mount` process to track the
    Git index and watch updates from the ProjFS filesystem driver, you must
    first run `gvfs unmount` before deleting your repository. This will also
    remove the repository from the auto-mount feature of `GVFS.Service`.

    Make sure the current working directory of your shell is not in the VFS for Git repo and that no other processes are using files in it. For example:

    ```
    C:\Users\you\big_repo\src\> cd ..\..
    C:\Users\you\> gvfs unmount big_repo
    ```

    If you have deleted the enlistment or its `.gvfs` folder, then you will
    likely see alerts saying "Failed to auto-mount at path `X`". To manually remove
    this repo from the auto-mount feature, remove the appropriate line
    from the `C:\ProgramData\GVFS\GVFS.Service\repo-registry` file.

1. Clean up the remaining folder. (Do not try to delete the repo before it is un mounted.)

    Once un-mounted you can fully clean up the old repo by deleteing it. Following the example from above:

    ```
    C:\Users\you\> rmdir /S /Q big_repo
    ```

Upgrade
-------

The `GVFS.Service` process checks for new versions of VFS for Git daily and
will prompt you for upgrade using a notification. To check manually, run
`gvfs upgrade` to see if an upgrade is available. Run `gvfs upgrade --confirm`
to actually perform the upgrade, if you wish.

### Upgrade fails with

**Symptom:** `gvfs upgrade` fails with the following error:

> ERROR: Could not launch upgrade tool. File copy error - The specified path, file name, or both are too long"

**Fix:** There is a known issue with VFS for Git v1.0.20112.1 where the
`gvfs upgrade` command fails with a long-path error. The root cause is a
[recursive directory copy](https://github.com/microsoft/VFSForGit/pull/1672)
that loops the contents of that directory into the copy and it never ends.
The only fix is to [manually upgrade to version v1.0.20154.3](https://github.com/microsoft/VFSForGit/releases/tag/v1.0.20154.3).

Common Issues
-------------

We are constantly improving VFS for Git to prevent known issues from
reoccurring. Please make sure you are on the latest version using `gvfs upgrade`
before raising an issue. Please also keep your version of Windows updated
as that is the only way to get updates to the ProjFS filesystem driver.

### TRY THIS FIRST: `gvfs repair`

Some known issues can get your enlistment into a bad state. Running

`gvfs repair` will detect known issues and the output will mention if the
issue is actionable or not. Then, `gvfs repair --confirm` will actually
make the changes it thinks are necessary.

If `gvfs repair` detects a problem but says it cannot fix the problem,
then that's an excellent message to include when creating an issue.

### TRY THIS NEXT: `gvfs unmount`, `gvfs mount`, or restart

Sometimes the `GVFS.Mount` process gets in a bad state and simply needs to
restart to auto-heal. Since VFS for Git also interacts directly with the
ProjFS filesystem driver, sometimes a system restart can help.

### Mismatched Git version

**Symptom:** Enlistment fails to mount with an error such as

```
Warning: Installed git version <X> does not match supported version of <Y>
```

**Fix:** VFS for Git is tightly coupled to
[a custom version of Git](https://github.com/microsoft/git). This error
happens when the installed version of Git does not match the one that was
included in the VFS for Git installer. Please download and install the
matching version of Git from
[the VFS for Git releases page](https://github.com/microsoft/vfsforgit/releases).

### 404 Errors, or "The Git repository with name or identifier X does not exist..."

If your `gvfs clone <url>` command fails with this error, then check if you
can access `<url>` in a web browser. If you cannot see the repository in the
web, then you do not have permissions to read that repository. These issues
cannot be resolved by the VFS for Git team and must be done by your repository
administrators.

If you _can_ see the repository in the web, then likely you have a stale
credential in your credential manager that needs updating. VFS for Git
_should_ attempt to renew your credential. If it does not, then go to
Windows Credential Manager and delete the Git credential for that URL.

### ProjFS Installation Issue

**Symptoms:**

- VFS for Git will not mount
- The mount logs (or mount CLI) have a ProjFS related error.
Examples:
   - "Service prjflt was not found on computer".
    - "Could not load file or assembly 'ProjectedFSLib.Managed.dll' or one
      of its dependencies. The specified module could not be found."
    - "Attaching the filter resulted in: 2149515283"
    - "StartVirtualizationInstance failed: 80070057(InvalidArg)"

**Fix:**

The easiest way to fix ProjFS issues is to completely remove ProjFS, and 
then rely on `GVFS.Service` to re-install (or re-enable) ProjFS.

1. If `C:\Program Files\GVFS\ProjectedFSLib.dll` is present, delete it
2. Determine if inbox ProjFS is currently enabled:

*In an Administrator Command Prompt*

```powershell -NonInteractive -NoProfile -Command "&{Get-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Client-ProjFS}"```

Check the value of `State:` in the output to see if inbox ProjFS is enabled.

3. If ProjFS **is enabled**
   - Restart machine
   - Attempt to mount
   - If mount fails, manually disable ProjFS:
       - Control Panel->Programs->Turn Windows features on or off
       - Uncheck "Windows Projected File System"
      - Click OK
      - Restart machine
      - (When `GVFS.Service` starts, it will automatically re-enable the optional feature)
    - `gvfs mount` repo
    - If the mount still fails, restart one more time and try `gvfs mount` again

4. If ProjFS **is not enabled**
    - Manually remove ProjFS and GvFlt
    From an Administrator command prompt:
        - `sc stop GVFS.Service`
       -  `sc stop gvflt`
       -  `sc delete gvflt`
       - `sc stop prjflt`
      - `sc delete prjflt`
      - `del c:\Windows\System32\drivers\prjflt.sys`
      - `sc start GVFS.Service`
    - `gvfs mount` repo

If the above steps do not resolve the issue, and the user is on Windows
Server, ensure they have
[the latest version of GVFS installed](https://github.com/microsoft/vfsforgit/releases).

### Unable to Move/Rename directories inside GVFS repository.

**Symptom:**
User is not able to rename or move a partial directory inside their
VFS for Git enlistment. If rename or move is done using Windows Explorer,
the user might see an error alert with message ```Error 0x80070032: The request is not supported.```

**Fix:**
Partial directories are directories that originate from the virtual projection.
They exist on disk and still contain ProjFS reparse data. When an application
enumerates a partial directory ProjFS calls VFS for Git's enumeration callbacks.

VFS for Git does not support rename or move of partial directories inside an
enlistment. However it supports rename/move of a regular directory. User can
copy the partial directory and paste it inside the enlistment. The newly pasted
directory is a regular directory and can be renamed or moved around inside the
enlistment. The original partial directory can now be deleted.

Diagnosing Issues
-----------------

The `gvfs diagnose` command collects logs and config details for the current
repository. The resulting zip file helps root-cause issues.

When run inside your repository, creates a zip file containing several important
files for that repository. This includes:

* All log files from `gvfs` commands run in the enlistment, including
  maintenance steps.

* Log files from the `GVFS.Service`.

* Configuration files from your `.git` folder, such as the `config` file,
  `index`, `hooks`, and `refs`.

* A summary of your Git object database, including the number of loose objects
  and the names and sizes of pack-files.

As the `diagnose` command completes, it provides the path of the resulting
zip file. This zip can be sent to the support team for investigation.

Modifying Configuration Values
------------------------------

### Cache Server URL

Cache servers are a feature of the GVFS protocol to provide low-latency
access to the on-demand object requests. This modifies the `gvfs.cache-server`
setting in your local Git config file.

Run `gvfs cache-server --get` to see the current cache server.

Run `gvfs cache-server --list` to see the available cache server URLs.

Run `gvfs cache-server --set=<url>` to set your cache server to `<url>`.

### System-wide Config

The `gvfs config` command allows customizing some behavior.

1. Set system-wide config settings using `gvfs config <key> <value>`.
2. View existing settings with `gvfs config --list`.
3. Remove an existing setting with `gvfs config --delete <key>`.

The `usn.updateDirectories` config option, when `true`, will update the
[USN journal entries](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/fsutil-usn)
of directories when the names of subdirectories or files are modified,
even if the directory is still only in a "projected" state. This can be
particularly important when using incremental build systems such as
microsoft/BuildXL. However, there is a 10-15% performance penalty on some
Git commands when this option is enabled.

The `gvfs config` command is also used for customizing the feed used for
VFS for Git upgrades. This is so large teams can bundle a custom installer
or other tools along with VFS for Git upgrades.

Commit message:

Add sub section for recovering from pre-delete.

docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

Troubleshooting
===============

Deleting a VFS for Git repo
---------------------------

You must follow these steps to delete a VFS for Git repository.

If you have attempted deletion before un-mounting jump to 
[Recovering from an attempt to delete without un-mounting](#Recovering-from-an-attempt-to-delete-without-un-mounting).


1. Un-mount the repo.

    Since a VFS for Git clone has a running `GVFS.Mount` process to track the
    Git index and watch updates from the ProjFS filesystem driver, you must
    first run `gvfs unmount` before deleting your repository. This will also
    remove the repository from the auto-mount feature of `GVFS.Service`.

    Make sure the current working directory of your shell is not in the VFS for Git 
    repo and that no other processes are using files in it. For example:

    ```
    C:\Users\you\big_repo\src\> cd ..\..
    C:\Users\you\> gvfs unmount big_repo
    ```

1. Clean up the remaining folder. (Do not try to delete the repo before it is un mounted.)

    Once un-mounted you can fully clean up the old repo by deleteing it. 
    Following the example from above:

    ```
    C:\Users\you\> rmdir /S /Q big_repo
    ```

### Recovering from an attempt to delete without un-mounting

  If you have attempted to delete the repo or its `.gvfs` folder, then you will
  likely see alerts saying "Failed to auto-mount at path `X`".
  
  1. Manually remove this repo from the auto-mount feature, remove the appropriate line
  from the `C:\ProgramData\GVFS\GVFS.Service\repo-registry` file.

  1. Ensure there is no currently running mount process for the repo.
      1. Open Task Manager.
      1. Go the `Details` tab.
      1. Right click in the header row (on `Name` for instance) to choose `Select Columns`.
      1. Check the `Command line` column which will show the full command line for each process.
      1. Look for a `GVFS.Mount.exe` process that has your repo in question in the command line arguments.
      1. If you find said process, right click and choose `End Task` to end it.

  1. Proceed with removing the directory as described above to clean up the folder 
     with `rmdir /S /Q REPO`.

Upgrade
-------

The `GVFS.Service` process checks for new versions of VFS for Git daily and
will prompt you for upgrade using a notification. To check manually, run
`gvfs upgrade` to see if an upgrade is available. Run `gvfs upgrade --confirm`
to actually perform the upgrade, if you wish.

### Upgrade fails with

**Symptom:** `gvfs upgrade` fails with the following error:

> ERROR: Could not launch upgrade tool. File copy error - The specified path, file name, or both are too long"

**Fix:** There is a known issue with VFS for Git v1.0.20112.1 where the
`gvfs upgrade` command fails with a long-path error. The root cause is a
[recursive directory copy](https://github.com/microsoft/VFSForGit/pull/1672)
that loops the contents of that directory into the copy and it never ends.
The only fix is to [manually upgrade to version v1.0.20154.3](https://github.com/microsoft/VFSForGit/releases/tag/v1.0.20154.3).

Common Issues
-------------

We are constantly improving VFS for Git to prevent known issues from
reoccurring. Please make sure you are on the latest version using `gvfs upgrade`
before raising an issue. Please also keep your version of Windows updated
as that is the only way to get updates to the ProjFS filesystem driver.

### TRY THIS FIRST: `gvfs repair`

Some known issues can get your enlistment into a bad state. Running

`gvfs repair` will detect known issues and the output will mention if the
issue is actionable or not. Then, `gvfs repair --confirm` will actually
make the changes it thinks are necessary.

If `gvfs repair` detects a problem but says it cannot fix the problem,
then that's an excellent message to include when creating an issue.

### TRY THIS NEXT: `gvfs unmount`, `gvfs mount`, or restart

Sometimes the `GVFS.Mount` process gets in a bad state and simply needs to
restart to auto-heal. Since VFS for Git also interacts directly with the
ProjFS filesystem driver, sometimes a system restart can help.

### Mismatched Git version

**Symptom:** Enlistment fails to mount with an error such as

```
Warning: Installed git version <X> does not match supported version of <Y>
```

**Fix:** VFS for Git is tightly coupled to
[a custom version of Git](https://github.com/microsoft/git). This error
happens when the installed version of Git does not match the one that was
included in the VFS for Git installer. Please download and install the
matching version of Git from
[the VFS for Git releases page](https://github.com/microsoft/vfsforgit/releases).

### 404 Errors, or "The Git repository with name or identifier X does not exist..."

If your `gvfs clone <url>` command fails with this error, then check if you
can access `<url>` in a web browser. If you cannot see the repository in the
web, then you do not have permissions to read that repository. These issues
cannot be resolved by the VFS for Git team and must be done by your repository
administrators.

If you _can_ see the repository in the web, then likely you have a stale
credential in your credential manager that needs updating. VFS for Git
_should_ attempt to renew your credential. If it does not, then go to
Windows Credential Manager and delete the Git credential for that URL.

### ProjFS Installation Issue

**Symptoms:**

- VFS for Git will not mount
- The mount logs (or mount CLI) have a ProjFS related error.
Examples:
   - "Service prjflt was not found on computer".
    - "Could not load file or assembly 'ProjectedFSLib.Managed.dll' or one
      of its dependencies. The specified module could not be found."
    - "Attaching the filter resulted in: 2149515283"
    - "StartVirtualizationInstance failed: 80070057(InvalidArg)"

**Fix:**

The easiest way to fix ProjFS issues is to completely remove ProjFS, and 
then rely on `GVFS.Service` to re-install (or re-enable) ProjFS.

1. If `C:\Program Files\GVFS\ProjectedFSLib.dll` is present, delete it
2. Determine if inbox ProjFS is currently enabled:

*In an Administrator Command Prompt*

```powershell -NonInteractive -NoProfile -Command "&{Get-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Client-ProjFS}"```

Check the value of `State:` in the output to see if inbox ProjFS is enabled.

3. If ProjFS **is enabled**
   - Restart machine
   - Attempt to mount
   - If mount fails, manually disable ProjFS:
       - Control Panel->Programs->Turn Windows features on or off
       - Uncheck "Windows Projected File System"
      - Click OK
      - Restart machine
      - (When `GVFS.Service` starts, it will automatically re-enable the optional feature)
    - `gvfs mount` repo
    - If the mount still fails, restart one more time and try `gvfs mount` again

4. If ProjFS **is not enabled**
    - Manually remove ProjFS and GvFlt
    From an Administrator command prompt:
        - `sc stop GVFS.Service`
       -  `sc stop gvflt`
       -  `sc delete gvflt`
       - `sc stop prjflt`
      - `sc delete prjflt`
      - `del c:\Windows\System32\drivers\prjflt.sys`
      - `sc start GVFS.Service`
    - `gvfs mount` repo

If the above steps do not resolve the issue, and the user is on Windows
Server, ensure they have
[the latest version of GVFS installed](https://github.com/microsoft/vfsforgit/releases).

### Unable to Move/Rename directories inside GVFS repository.

**Symptom:**
User is not able to rename or move a partial directory inside their
VFS for Git enlistment. If rename or move is done using Windows Explorer,
the user might see an error alert with message ```Error 0x80070032: The request is not supported.```

**Fix:**
Partial directories are directories that originate from the virtual projection.
They exist on disk and still contain ProjFS reparse data. When an application
enumerates a partial directory ProjFS calls VFS for Git's enumeration callbacks.

VFS for Git does not support rename or move of partial directories inside an
enlistment. However it supports rename/move of a regular directory. User can
copy the partial directory and paste it inside the enlistment. The newly pasted
directory is a regular directory and can be renamed or moved around inside the
enlistment. The original partial directory can now be deleted.

Diagnosing Issues
-----------------

The `gvfs diagnose` command collects logs and config details for the current
repository. The resulting zip file helps root-cause issues.

When run inside your repository, creates a zip file containing several important
files for that repository. This includes:

* All log files from `gvfs` commands run in the enlistment, including
  maintenance steps.

* Log files from the `GVFS.Service`.

* Configuration files from your `.git` folder, such as the `config` file,
  `index`, `hooks`, and `refs`.

* A summary of your Git object database, including the number of loose objects
  and the names and sizes of pack-files.

As the `diagnose` command completes, it provides the path of the resulting
zip file. This zip can be sent to the support team for investigation.

Modifying Configuration Values
------------------------------

### Cache Server URL

Cache servers are a feature of the GVFS protocol to provide low-latency
access to the on-demand object requests. This modifies the `gvfs.cache-server`
setting in your local Git config file.

Run `gvfs cache-server --get` to see the current cache server.

Run `gvfs cache-server --list` to see the available cache server URLs.

Run `gvfs cache-server --set=<url>` to set your cache server to `<url>`.

### System-wide Config

The `gvfs config` command allows customizing some behavior.

1. Set system-wide config settings using `gvfs config <key> <value>`.
2. View existing settings with `gvfs config --list`.
3. Remove an existing setting with `gvfs config --delete <key>`.

The `usn.updateDirectories` config option, when `true`, will update the
[USN journal entries](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/fsutil-usn)
of directories when the names of subdirectories or files are modified,
even if the directory is still only in a "projected" state. This can be
particularly important when using incremental build systems such as
microsoft/BuildXL. However, there is a 10-15% performance penalty on some
Git commands when this option is enabled.

The `gvfs config` command is also used for customizing the feed used for
VFS for Git upgrades. This is so large teams can bundle a custom installer
or other tools along with VFS for Git upgrades.
